ISO 26262 Compliance
====================

PulseEngine targets ISO 26262 (Road Vehicles — Functional Safety)
for automotive applications.

Relevant Parts
--------------

**Part 6: Product development at the software level**

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Clause
     - Activity
     - Automator Coverage
   * - 6.7
     - Software architectural design
     - Planner agent → ``arch`` needs
   * - 6.8
     - Software unit design and implementation
     - Implementer agent → ``impl`` needs
   * - 6.9
     - Software unit verification
     - Gate 1 + Gate 2 → ``utest``, ``proof`` needs
   * - 6.10
     - Software integration and verification
     - Gate 3 → ``itest`` needs
   * - 6.11
     - Software qualification testing
     - Release pipeline → ``verif`` needs

**Part 8: Supporting processes — Tool qualification**

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Clause
     - Activity
     - Automator Coverage
   * - 8.11
     - Confidence in use of software tools
     - ``safety.rs`` TCL determination
   * - 8.12
     - Qualification of software components
     - ``safety.rs`` OSS qualification records

ASIL Decomposition
------------------

The toolchain safety targets:

- **synth** (ASIL D): Generates final binary. Full qualification required.
- **loom** (ASIL B): Optimization. ASIL decomposition from ASIL D with
  synth providing independent verification.
- **meld** (QM): Supporting tool. Qualification for tool confidence only.

Traceability Requirements
-------------------------

ISO 26262-6 requires bidirectional traceability between:

1. Software safety requirements ↔ Software architectural design
2. Software architectural design ↔ Software units
3. Software units ↔ Software unit verification
4. Software safety requirements ↔ Software integration verification
5. Software safety requirements ↔ Software qualification test

The automator's sphinx-needs export provides this via the ``links`` field
on each need, creating a complete traceability graph.
